---
layout: post
title: "Morning Prayer"
color: white
---
Rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the LORD your
God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great
kindness, and repenteth him of the evil. *Joel ii.* 13.

The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite
heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. *Psalm li.* 17.

I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I
have sinned against heaven, and before thee, and am no more worthy
to be called thy son. *St. Luke xv.* 18, 19.

LET us humbly confess our sins unto Almighty God.

*A General Confession.*

ALMIGHTY and most merciful Father; We have erred, and strayed from
thy ways like lost sheep. We have followed too much the devices and
desires of our own hearts. We have offended against thy holy laws.
We have left undone those things which we ought to have done; And
we have done those things which we ought not to have done; And there
is no health in us. But thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us, miserable
offenders. Spare thou those, O God, who confess their faults. Restore
thou those who are penitent; According to thy promises declared
unto mankind in Christ Jesus our Lord. And grant, O most merciful
Father, for his sake; That we may hereafter live a godly, righteous,
and sober life, To the glory of thy holy Name. Amen.

OUR Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom
come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this
day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive
those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; But
deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and
the glory, for ever and ever. Amen.

*Minister.* O Lord, open thou our lips.  
*Answer.* And our mouth shall show forth thy praise.  

*Minister.* Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost;  
*Answer.* As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.  
*Minister.* Praise ye the Lord.  
*Answer.* The Lord’s Name be praised.  

{% if page.color == 'white' or page.color == 'red' %}
  {% include Te_Deum.txt %}
{% elsif page.color == 'green' or page.color == 'purple' %}
  {% include Benedictus.txt %}
{% endif %}

foo bar baz
