---
layout: post
title: "Evening Prayer"
---
I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.
*Psalm li.* 3.

To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we
have rebelled against him; neither have we obeyed the voice of the
LORD our God, to walk in his laws which he set before us.
*Dan. ix.* 9, 10.

If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth
is not in us; but if we confess our sins, God is faithful and just
to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.
*1 St. John i.* 8, 9.

LET us humbly confess our sins unto Almighty God.

*A General Confession.*

ALMIGHTY and most merciful Father; We have erred, and strayed from
thy ways like lost sheep. We have followed too much the devices and
desires of our own hearts. We have offended against thy holy laws.
We have left undone those things which we ought to have done; And
we have done those things which we ought not to have done; And there
is no health in us. But thou, O Lord, have mercy upon us, miserable
offenders. Spare thou those, O God, who confess their faults. Restore
thou those who are penitent; According to thy promises declared
unto mankind in Christ Jesus our Lord. And grant, O most merciful
Father, for his sake; That we may hereafter live a godly, righteous,
and sober life, To the glory of thy holy Name. Amen.

OUR Father, who art in heaven, Hallowed be thy Name. Thy kingdom
come. Thy will be done, On earth as it is in heaven. Give us this
day our daily bread. And forgive us our trespasses, As we forgive
those who trespass against us. And lead us not into temptation; But
deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and
the glory, for ever and ever. Amen.

*Minister.* O Lord, open thou our lips.  
*Answer.* And our mouth shall show forth thy praise.  

*Minister.* Glory be to the Father, and to the Son, and to the Holy Ghost;  
*Answer.* As it was in the beginning, is now, and ever shall be, world without end. Amen.  
*Minister.* Praise ye the Lord.  
*Answer.* The Lord’s Name be praised.  

*Gloria in excelsis.*

GLORY be to God on high, and on earth peace, good will towards men.
We praise thee, we bless thee, we worship thee, we glorify thee,
we give thanks to thee for thy great glory, O Lord God, heavenly
King, God the Father Almighty.  
O Lord, the only-begotten Son, Jesus Christ; O Lord God, Lamb of
God, Son of the Father, that takest away the sins of the world,
have mercy upon us. Thou that takest away the sins of the world,
receive our prayer. Thou that sittest at the right hand of God the
Father, have mercy upon us.  
For thou only art holy; thou only art the Lord; thou only, O Christ,
with the Holy Ghost, art most high in the glory of God the Father.
Amen.  

Here beginneth

Here endeth the First Lesson.

*Magnificat.* St. Luke i. 46.

MY soul doth magnify the Lord, * and my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.  
For he hath regarded * the lowliness of his handmaiden.  
For behold, from henceforth * all generations shall call me blessed.  
For he that is mighty hath magnified me; * and holy is his Name.  
And his mercy is on them that fear him * throughout all generations.  
He hath showed strength with his arm; * he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.  
He hath put down the mighty from their seat, * and hath exalted the humble and meek.  
He hath filled the hungry with good things; * and the rich he hath sent empty away.  
He remembering his mercy hath holpen his servant Israel; * as he promised to our forefathers, Abraham and his seed, for ever.  

Here beginneth

Here endeth the Second Lesson.

*Nunc dimittis.* St. Luke ii. 29.

LORD, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, * according to thy word.  
For mine eyes have seen * thy salvation,  
Which thou hast prepared * before the face of all people;  
To be a light to lighten the Gentiles, * and to be the glory of thy people Israel.

I BELIEVE in God the Father Almighty, Maker of heaven and earth:  
And in Jesus Christ his only Son our Lord: Who was conceived by the
Holy Ghost, Born of the Virgin Mary: Suffered under Pontius Pilate,
Was crucified, dead, and buried: He descended into hell; The third
day he rose again from the dead: He ascended into heaven, And sitteth
on the right hand of God the Father Almighty: From thence he shall
come to judge the quick and the dead.  
I believe in the Holy Ghost: The holy Catholic Church; The Communion
of Saints: The Forgiveness of sins: The Resurrection of the body:
And the Life everlasting. Amen.

*Minister.* The Lord be with you.  
*Answer.* And with thy spirit.  
*Minister.* Let us pray.  

*Minister.* O Lord, show thy mercy upon us.  
*Answer.* And grant us thy salvation.  
*Minister.* O Lord, save the State.  
*Answer.* And mercifully hear us when we call upon thee.  
*Minister.* Endue thy Ministers with righteousness.  
*Answer.* And make thy chosen people joyful.  
*Minister.* O Lord, save thy people.  
*Answer.* And bless thine inheritance.  
*Minister.* Give peace in our time, O Lord.  
*Answer.* For it is thou, Lord, only, that makest us dwell in safety.  
*Minister.* O God, make clean our hearts within us.  
*Answer.* And take not thy Holy Spirit from us.  

WE beseech thee, Almighty God, mercifully to look upon thy people;
that by thy great goodness they may be governed and preserved
evermore, both in body and soul; through Jesus Christ our Lord.
*Amen.*

ALMIGHTY and everlasting God, who hatest nothing that thou hast
made, and dost forgive the sins of all those who are penitent;
Create and make in us new and contrite hearts, that we,worthily
lamenting our sins and acknowledging our wretchedness, may obtain
of thee, the God of all mercy, perfect remission and forgiveness;
through Jesus Christ our Lord. *Amen.*

*A Collect for Peace.*

O GOD, from whom all holy desires, all good counsels, and all just
works do proceed; Give unto thy servants that peace which the world
cannot give; that our hearts may be set to obey thy commandments,
and also that by thee, we, being defended from the fear of our
enemies, may pass our time in rest and quietness; through the merits
of Jesus Christ our Saviour. *Amen.*

*A Collect for Aid against Perils.*

LIGHTEN our darkness, we beseech thee, O Lord; and by thy great
mercy defend us from all perils and dangers of this night; for the
love of thy only Son, our Saviour, Jesus Christ. *Amen.*

*In Time of Calamity.*

O GOD, merciful and compassionate, who art ever ready to hear the
prayers of those who put their trust in thee; Graciously hearken
to us who call upon thee, and grant us thy help in this our need;
through Jesus Christ our Lord. *Amen.*

*In Time of Great Sickness and Mortality.*

O MOST mighty and merciful God, in this time of grievous sickness,
we flee unto thee for succour. Deliver us, we beseech thee, from
our peril; give strength and skill to all those who minister to the
sick; prosper the means made use of for their cure; and grant that,
perceiving how frail and uncertain our life is, we may apply our
hearts unto that heavenly wisdom which leadeth to eternal life;
through Jesus Christ our Lord. *Amen.*

*2 Cor. xiii. 14.*

THE grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, and the love of God, and the
fellowship of the Holy Ghost, be with us all evermore. Amen.
